[MUSIC]
This lecture, we'll talk about classes
a little bit more, just a little bit more.
We just wanna give enough about classes
to express the minimum that we need to
understand about classes in order to go
ahead and start using library functions,
using Arduino libraries because
they refer to classes often.
So, we'll just touch on
class a little bit more,
just give the definition and
then we'll move on.
Classes.
So, classes basically bring data and
functions together and give them a name.
So, in this example right here
I define a class called X,
you can see it says class X.
Pardon my indentation,
it's a little so-so.
Class X.
And there's the curly brackets.
Inside class X you see public.
That just means that the data inside
there is public, anybody can see it.
We don't need to focus on that.
But inside there, inside class X,
I define two things.
Int m, and then int mf.
Now m is just a variable,
an integer, right?
So now, what that's saying
is that inside this class X,
every time I make a new
object of that class,
it's going to have a variable called m all
to itself, and it's gonna be an integer.
Now for the next line, it says int mf.
But notice that the mf
has parentheses after it.
You know,
int v inside parentheses after it.
Since it has those parentheses, the
machine probably knows that is a function.
So, m is a variable, but
mf is a function that I'm defining.
So I say int mf, and it takes
an integer v, it returns an integer.
And then in curly brackets after that,
you can see the three lines of code.
Int old = m; m = v; return old; right?
So, inside this class X,
I've defined two things.
A variable m that's associated
with this class X and every object
of the class X and then a function, mf,
which is associated with the class X.
And so I've defined the class up there.
Now then the last three lines up
there are actually using the class.
So let's take that next line, X var:,
what that does is it just declares
a new object of type of class X.
Okay?
So, you know how I would say int var and
then it would make var an integer.
Well by saying X var,
I'm making var an object of class X.
So, that means, when I make that,
I'm implicitly making a variable m.
Cuz var is a new object of that class,
so it's gotta have its variable m.
So there's going to be some m variable in
there that's dedicated to that object.
Okay, even though I
don't explicitly say it.
Now in the next line, I say var.m = 7.
So what I'm doing there, is I'm taking
that m, that's associated with var,
the new object that I just created,
and setting it equal to 7.
So note that I don't just say m = 7.
Because if I said that, the machine
wouldn't know which m I'm talking about.
I say var.m = 7, okay, so then it knows,
okay the m associated with this
var object, that's gonna equal 7.
And in the next line,
I define a new variable, z,
and I say z = var.mf(9), right?
So, in that case I'm calling a function,
mf is a function that's
associated with that class.
So I say var.mf, tells me, oh I want
the function associated with this class
that var is a part of, that mf function.
It calls that function,
passes the argument 9 to it, and
which returns an integer, and
then z is set equal to that integer.
So, just showing an example
where I'm defining the variable,
assigning it a value, and then I'm calling
a function inside the class as well.
So, the declaration of
the variable creates an object.
So when I say X var,
it creates an object of that class, and
we're calling it var of that class X.
Then, the dot operator
is very important here,
the dot operator is used
to access the members.
So, when you talk about a class and
it's members, the members are the things
that are part of the class.
So for instance in our class,
we can say it has two members.
m, which is a variable in there and
mf, which is a function in there.
So this class we could
say has two members.
And the way you refer to the members
is with this dot operator.
So, the data in the function you refer
to them with the dot operator and
you see we do that var.m and
what's to the left of the dot tells you
this is where you're gonna get the m from.
You're gonna get it from var, var is m.
And then var.mf.
Okay, look for var,
the class that's part of.
That's the mf that we're gonna use.
So the dot operator is important for
referencing these things.
Functions can be defined inside the class.
So we're doing that here.
We define the variables inside the class,
int m, but we can also define functions.
Int mf or any number of
functions that we wanna define.
Now, the reason why we're talking about
classes at all is because classes
are often used in libraries.
So when you get a library, an Arduino
library, typically they give you
a set of classes, and each class contains
a bunch of functions that you wanna use.
And so you have to refer to these
functions based by the class name often,
or an object name.
So what I'm showing down
here is like Ethernet.begin.
Now we haven't gotten to this yet,
but there's an ethernet
library that you can get from Arduino that
you can use with an ethernet shield, and
this library, it has a begin function.
When you want to initialize
the ethernet adapter,
you have to call this begin function.
Call begin right there.
And you can't just call begin,
you have to say ethernet.begin,
because it's from this ethernet
class that comes with the library.
Next I have serial.begin.
So by the way,
begin is the extremely common name for
the first function in this libraries.
Right, the first thing you do to set
up the library, you often call begin.
So, there's another library
called the Serial library,
if I wanna use a Serial interface, which
we will cover, and that also has a begin.
So, I can't just say begin.
I have to say Serial.begin,
to say I want to begin from
the Serial Class, Serial library.
Now notice that Ethernet library and
Serial library both have begin
functions associated with them.
And in order for the machine, the
compiler, to know which one I'm referring
to, I have to prefix it with the name of
the library or the name of the class.
So, Ethernet.begin, Serial.begin.
We did the same thing with the print.
You can have a Serial.print and
we'll cover that,
where it prints something
on the serial cable.
But then, client.print, client is
the name of an object that you can
create inside the ethernet library and
that does something completely different.
Client.print actually takes the word
Hello and sends it as a message.
Okay?
On the internet.
So, those two prints do
completely different things.
And you have to prefix a print
with the name of the object and
the name of the class where
the function comes from.
So, this is why we're actually
learning about classes at all, is so
that you understand what you're doing when
you make these calls to library functions,
Arduino libraries.
So, we don't need to
know a lot about classes.
We will not define classes in this course.
We'll just use predefined classes
that come with the library.
So we'll use the classes that are defined
in these libraries, like Ethernet or
serial or whatever the libraries are.
And we'll hit these as we
go through the lectures,
we'll talk more about different libraries
and the classes that they define.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]